# Abstract
The aim of this project is to cluster observations of the foetal health data set into its relevant classes of foetal health, namely: “healthy”, “suspect” and “pathological” based on the available features in the foetal health dataset. The objectives include: (1) Clustering the data into three clusters, which performs well across various metrics, and (2) to investigate if three foetal health classes are appropriate. As a result, I find that the K-means clustering algorithm outperforms all other clustering algorithms based on performance metrics such as the average silhouette width, average within cluster Jaccard similarity, average cluster instability, average between cluster dissimilarity and average within cluster dissimilarity. In addition, analysis of the optimal number of clusters confirms that k = 3 clusters is the most representative clustering structure for the foetal health data set.

#Introduction
Child mortality is a key indicator of human progress [1]. With that being said, the United Nations' (UN) Sustainable Development Goals emphasize the need to reduce child mortality. The UN forecasts that all countries should be able to end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age by the year 2030. To achieve this goal, all countries are encouraged to reduce under-5 mortality to at least 25 per 1,000 live births.
However, one cannot ignore maternal mortality, while investigating child mortality. Maternal mortality accounts for 295 000 deaths during and after pregnancy and childbirth (as of 2017). A large proportion of these deaths (94%) have occurred in low-resource settings, most of which were preventable.
Cardiotocograms (CTGs) have been proposed as a simple and cost-effective solution to assess foetal health so that health professionals (in formal and informal settings) may take the necessary preventative measures to reduce child and maternal mortality. CTGs operate by sending ultrasound pulses and reading its response. As a result, foetal heart rate (FHR), foetal movements, and uterine contractions may be monitored, among other factors. Obstetricians perform these cardiotocogram exams, and the results may assist in the early diagnosis of foetal anomalies. Based on the CTG results, foetal health can be classified into three main classes, namely: “healthy”, “suspect” and “pathological”.
This project aims to assess data obtained by cardiotocogram exams, cluster foetal health into its relevant classes and investigate these clusters. Insight into these clusters may assist in the reduction of foetal and maternal mortality.
